hi everyone my name is Elena and I'm
currently a second year at Lubitsch in
United World College and today I'm going
to be sharing some of my tips for your
uwc interview
so before I'm going to start I just want
to point out I only went through two
German National Committee's and immune
crosses so I don't know how it goes in
other countries but what I can say about
my interviews is I had two of them they
both happened on a weekend where he
invited us to come and we had different
exercises and two interviews one of them
was mainly based on my application and
yeah it was just like them asking her
about some of the stuff I said because
the essays are pretty short so they want
to know more my extracurriculars and so
on and then the other one was about you
CC and what could I contribute maybe
also what I'm afraid of
what are supposed to challenge it that
I'm expecting to face um yeah it was
just like a lot of like stuff that was
more focused on you CC as a movement and
like why I want to join you and the
other one was just like my application
alright so the first thing is something
that in my opinion everyone should know
but I thought good to say it again
because I saw some people in the year of
my application who did this so yeah
don't do it don't be late
if noticed should be a given but you
know your interviewers are gonna think
that it doesn't matter so much to you if
you can't even come on time for the
interview and you have a very limited
time with your interviewer for example
my interviews lasted 20 minutes each so
you don't want to lose a single minute
of those 20 because 20 minutes go by
really fast maybe for some of you it
sounds like a lot of time but I'm
telling you as soon as your conversation
starts you're gonna like talk and talk
and it feels like five minutes and
you're gonna be like oh our times
already up and you're whoa this one's
really fast so make sure to use every
minute that you get with your
interviewers and make sure to be on time
for that number to know your application
and know it really well I did not expect
my interviewers to know my application
that well
like they read it very carefully they
made a lot of notes on it and they
really thought about their questions
ahead of time and it was like the
questions are very detailed and you
could really see like they've read it
like at least two times and I feel like
like that shows a lot of dedication from
the interviewers side but they also
expect you to be just as dedicated and
know what you wrote about so you don't
want to sit an interviewer and how the
interview asked you about for example
topic that you said you're interested in
you're like really I said that that's
interesting um well let me think about
that you know like you don't want to act
like you don't know your application
your application should really represent
yourself so basically you if you wrote
it well and you like only told the truth
you should know what's important to you
and what's and and of course like you
don't need to learn it by hardly there
is no need to quote anything from your
essays or stuff but you should know what
you showed to your interviewers ahead of
time in form of your application and it
also helps you to anticipate some of the
questions that might come up because
they will definitely take a look at your
application and think about okay what do
I want to know from this applicant what
are some questions that aren't really
answered by the application for exam the
essays are really short in the
application so you might want to know
more about a specific topic or an
activity that you joined so be prepared
to answer those questions alright my
next tip is to prepare one question um
which I guess you have a 90% chance of
this question showing up and that is
tell me something about yourself a lot
of interviewers not just University
interviews start out like that and this
is a question that is so common that
they expect you to have prepared for it
and you should have here's what I would
advise you to do prepare an answer that
is less than a minute start out with
your H the place where you live and if
there's anything interesting about your
story or where you've lived like maybe
you live in another country you go to
school in our country or you
lived somewhere else for a while now
view back say that um they're gonna find
an interesting you might ask about your
experiences what you learn through that
that's always a good thing to talk about
so you know make sure to mention it so
your interview is like have some
inspiration for questions it's always
good to give the material that you're
confident talking about and once you
like cover those basics you can talk
about your extracurriculars don't talk
about your 25 extracurricular activities
that you're doing at school talk about
two to free try keeping it the two but
you really have to free and and most
important to you and but make sure that
it's short and make sure that the
activities that you pick are activities
that you can talk about when they ask
about it make sure they're meaningful to
you and then you might want to talk
about your goals like I don't know maybe
you'll want to become a lawyer and work
for UN and if you have something like
significant that you want to achieve
feel free to talk about that and I would
also try to end the little monologue
that you're giving them on a positive
note so maybe you have like something
funny about yourself like any funny
talent you know something that you would
write like in an application but it's
just funny or I don't know like
something cool about you that people
like don't usually notice at first um
feel free to say that my next of us to
think about your answers like take your
time and you can actually buy some time
during the interview like for example
you can say oh that's a tough question
or let me think about that or if you're
really confident and brave you could be
like well actually I'm not really sure
how about you so you can throw it back
at the interviewer and now be careful
not every interviewer is gonna like that
but you're gonna realize within the
first five minutes approximately your
interview
how would your interviewer once the
interview to go like whoever they want
like just like you know it's a format
where day after question you just give
the answers or rubber day would like you
should treat it more as a car
and they are willing to tell you a bit
about themselves or your experiences or
whatever so when you realize that your
interviewer is willing to treat it more
like a conversation you can do that and
some of the interviewers will actually
like appreciate it when you do it but
don't worry if you're not like the type
of person that would normally like throw
it back at the interview or something
you don't have to do it um so me fine
so yeah but try to like take the time to
think about questions of course don't
think about them like for a whole minute
but like take ten seconds to just gather
your fault if it's a longer answer you
want to make sure that you structure it
in your head that you're not just going
on like rambling about stuff because
that usually doesn't leave a positive
impression tip number five prepare for
you interview and I know that the German
National Committee says you cannot
prepare but I don't think that's true um
I prepared for my interview and I think
it helped me a lot even if your
preparatory interviews don't contain any
of the questions they're asking you you
will still have gained some confidence
from them because you already then had
some experience in interviewing and I
think that's really important because at
the time you're applying to WC you're
usually in tenth grade maybe you're in
eleventh grade and it's important for
you to gain some experience because I
know for myself I had one interview for
an internship before my university
interview no the only interview I ever
had so you know I had to gain some
experience to be more confident when
sitting in the room with my interviewers
so here's what I did I asked a lot of
teachers to interview me I asked some
relatives to interview me and I sent all
of them my application so they could
take a look at it I also wrote them a
little paragraph about what UWC is so
that they know what the interviews for
and then I just let them interview me I
actually had one of my teachers
interview me in English that was because
I set him application and I'm also a
student of a bilingual class in my
school and I was a bit afraid that maybe
because of that file Engelhard
they might be like women interview oh
you know what let's just like switch to
English for this question
so that didn't happen if anyone wonders
but you know being prepared for it just
gives you like this feeling of security
and one thing that I would advise you to
do is to videotape the interviews
because when you have a video of it you
can later and watch it and you can see
your body language yeah my next tip is
again about preparation and that is you
should have a solid knowledge about
politics I don't mean know everything in
detail don't worry
reading a newspaper once a week should
do it you can also reach a website
whatever but be informed particularly be
informed about your own country so for
me that was Germany like you know you
don't need to know like the latest
election results or anything but you
know know some general stuff I know
what's going on what is the current
issue they might ask you about this like
what is an issue I'm in the news that
really interested you in the past four
weeks another thing is you should be
knowledgeable I would say about
conflicts in the world
um why well because it at a United World
College you have students from all over
the world and for example some issues
arise when students from countries who
are war with one another or conflict
with one another are living together in
the same school and they might ask
questions about that now if you're
sitting in the interview and you're like
how would you help your friends one is
an Israeli friend one is a Palestinian
friend and they have a conflict because
of the conflict that they countries have
like what would you do and if you're
sitting there like Israel Palestine um I
heard about that but I don't really know
what's going on uh that's kind of look
really weird so yeah so you see like
they're not gonna be like okay so what
are the latest policies by Israel
regarding to Israeli Palestine conflict
but they do expect you to know some
stuff about the world so alright and my
last tip is to treat your interviewer
like they want you to get in because
they do they genuinely do want you to
get in
they put a lot of effort in preparing
your interview they read your
application like two times they write
down all the questions that they want to
ask you they come extra to the interview
plays interview you then they talk if
there's a second interviewer which
really do the interview with they talk
to them and they ask them what did you
think they have to write an evaluation
of the interview and then sometimes it's
still involved like in the selection
process later on if they have any
questions and they get back to the
interviewer so they really really are
excited about the interview so be
excited about the interview as well I'm
treat them more like a friend
so that means be happy your during the
interview if you can I know it can be
really scary but you know it's also a
really great experience because you get
to talk about all the things you're
passionate about because they want to
know about you they want to know about
what matters to you so yeah I feel like
it's a it's actually a really cool
experience and even if you don't get in
um you get a really good learning
experience from that interview for
future interviews so yeah appreciate it
and don't be afraid of your interviewer
um really I know I was really afraid
like walking into the room it was very
intimidating but actually my
interviewers turn out to be like super
nice people and I think we lost a lot
during the interview and I think I
enjoyed it I think my interviews enjoyed
it too so um yeah I really encourage you
to see it more as a fun experience then
at the scary thing that you just like
have to get over yeah those are my tips
for your university interview if you're
currently applying to uw see you good
luck if you have any other questions
feel free to write me through my blog
alena Henrik comm on my block is a
contact section and you can just write
your message there make sure to put your
email there so I can answer you and then
yeah I'll just get back to you
and you could also check out my blog if
you want to know more about my life here
in Hong Kong I was to write about a lot
of other stuff but I tried to like touch
on my life at LPC like every once in a
while again and to like share pictures I
like sometimes like the things we
experience
here so that people have a better idea
of what's coming for them if they're
joining LPC one day or never uwc yeah
thank you very much for watching bye